>> Ben Hong: We did a lot.
I know it sounded like four sections
when we first started with components
Composables, Routing and State Management.
But as we know,
the meat of today was really just getting
our hands elbow deep in Composables so
that when you go back to your code bases,
you're just going to be like, yeah,
I'm just going to create one and
you're not going to think twice about it.
I think if that's where
people are feeling and
then you got to get your hands
on with some of those more call
it advanced composition design patterns
where there are more edge cases.
But again, as software architects,
we do need to understand how
to navigate those things.
Those are things that
we touched on as well.
And then a lot of you got to play
with file based routing, it seems for
the first time, which is fun.
Yeah, so that's for
me it's such a big DX improvement.
And then finally of course we kind of
wrapped it up to show that all our work
with Composables really is not so
far from the state management library.
We already have the official
one we have for vue.
So again, I have met people at
other workshops who they're
like pinyout's great but
we decided to hand roll our own.
We have our type safe, you know,
we have our documented way of doing it and
I can't stress enough if that works for
you.
Good, go for it.
Just know that you know these pre built
options are still very suitable and
worth your time should
you choose to use it.
Just a comment in the chat that this
was a very informative workshop and
a really great addition to
your fundamentals course.
Great, I really appreciate that.
But just kind of in terms of other
final thoughts, so just kind of,
these are the things that we covered,
lots of different techniques within them.
So do not sell yourself
short of the things we did.
So of course the next question is now
you've just finished the intermediate
workshop, what is next?
And so to you I present this comic.
I hate myself.
That's where it starts.
A therapist comes by and says,
[LAUGH] Look, typescript.
And then, wow, I hate this even more.
I kid now the thing is that typescript,
I don't know for me personally,
I have a love hate relationship with it.
There are times where I'm like,
wow, this is great.
It's doing exactly what I want.
And then there's other time where
the build tool is breaking and I'm like,
nothing works.
I want to chuck all this in the bin.
For me it's very much
a love hate relationship.
That said, it's more I said in Jess.
I mean obviously we're here as a front
end workshops, frontend masters workshop.
But VUE is ultimately,
I tell this to people all the time.
It's a framework about helping to
get the cruft out of the way so
you can do what's important to you.
And once we provided those
fundamentals with composition API now,
as we talked about, a lot of the Nuxt
really is just about advancing your skills
as a JavaScript software architect.
Because the patterns we're talking about,
singletons, factories,
we talked about different ways to share,
state, how to keep them modular.
Those are all things that it
shared across the fields we do,
regardless of whatever
framework it is that you do.
So there are wonderful,
as you know, workshops or for
those of you are new wonderful workshops
they have here to take your JavaScript or
TypeScript knowledge further on.
So if typescript is scary,
definitely this is the place to check out.
Then for those who haven't had
the joy of checking this out,
be sure to check out Nuxt.
Nuxt is kind of this wonderful paradise
of DX enhancements that the things you
love about Vue 3 they were like, cool,
we're going to just build stuff in
that we think has worked really well and
then you just try it out.
So things like the page,
the file based routing that we did,
that's built into this.
So people who have been using Nuxt 3
have had this for quite some time.
It's only recently come to Vue
3 as a separate place plugin.
They have things like auto
imports on your composables.
They have already built-in patterns for
how API libraries can be, or
API fetching can be done.
They have their own native use fetch as
well because we built like a very bare
bones one on our own.
And then more importantly,
nuxt can handle all the SSR hydration.
You want to do some stuff static,
you want to do some stuff like client
side rendered, it can do all that.
And so the hybrid rendering it makes
just to show you, nuxt hybrid rendering.
Like I don't know if any of you have
ever dove into this on your own,
but like SSR is a rabbit hole.
And so what's cool, da, da, da,
check this out,
you can just set route rules and
then tell it which strategy you
wanted to use for what page.
Yeah, you say like cool, pre-render this,
do stable while revalidate on that.
I mean the acronyms kind
of get all over the place.
But you can see here, I Don't know.
I don't know if it gets much
easier than that, right?
When it comes to mixing your
renderings strategy for your site,
especially when a lot of things, you don't
need to be constantly re rendered or
not everything needs to be SSR'd.
You know, I think in software development
we do have a tendency to like over
index on whatever the hot thing is.
And so SSR was the way we always did it
and then it's almost like we forgot about
it and then it became a thing again
that everyone's like, ssr everything.
It's like there's a world where
everything plays together.
And so
this kind of stuff reminds me that, yeah,
we can have some stuff that's
pre rendered, which is great.
You statically generate it.
Other stuff like blog posts, right, you
don't need that to be generated especially
on the client side, just generate one.
So deployment, cache it, things like that.
And so nuxt is phenomenal if you have a
chance to play around with another project
and you're starting
a new VUE project again.
Can't speak highly enough of nuxt.
The team is phenomenal if you're
looking for someone to follow.
Daniel Rowe is the project lead on nuxt.
He is fantastic.
And then I'm curious,
has anyone here heard of vitepress?
Yay.
Okay, great.
For those who haven't,
this is the successor to vuepress,
if you didn't hear about that one.
And essentially it's just
a static site generator that
creates a doc site that
looks just like vpress.dev.
it basically looks like this, except
everything is configured via markdown.
And so if you're getting started,
you can see here,
da da da, the homepage is just that.
You add the title, the description,
some theme config stuff, and
then you get all this navigation,
you get theming,
you get the ability to have like next
page, like it's basically all marked down,
but the back end of it,
it will statically generate for you.
And then it even uses VUE
underneath the hood for theming.
And so there's actually a lot of open
source projects use this these days and
they're not even VUE related.
They just wanted to create a doc site.
And VPRESS is incredibly easy.
You start up the starter project,
you add some markdown files.
Voila, it works.
It's pretty great.
So shout out to vitepress as well.
For those looking for like, hey,
I want to spin up like a little
internal dock site for my team.
This is great.
This is like,
I can't this is phenomenal for
that kind of thing and
people use it at scale like I think Pinia,
all the docs you see in the View,
I think we all use vitepress.
>> Speaker 2: Pretty much
the whole like view nuxt.
>> Ben Hong: I think Nuxt does have nuxt
docs though, so that's where I hesitate.
So it's similar, yeah, but nonetheles,
vpress on its own impressive Nuxt docs,
I guess.
Honorary honorable mention to them as
well, having a chance to use them as much.
But they also create great stuff.
But yeah, you can see file based routing.
Yay, huzzah, congratulations.
You ought to be proud of yourself.
I really appreciate everyone
spending the time with me today.
I know it's been a long day, but again,
with all your feedback and questions and
stuff, it really makes this
a pleasurable experience.
So thanks everyone for coming.